site-with-jekyll-grunt-sass
===========================


# jekyll site hosted on github project page

Setup the master branch

WARNING: This tutorial covers the setup of a Project Page, and as so the master branch is used as the source one, and the gh-pages branch holds the generated site. However, if you setup a User Page then the master branch holds the generated site, and so you have to create a new branch (eg: source) to hold your site source.

First, create an empty jekyll-example repository on github via the web interface.

Then generate the website:

`$ jekyll new [FOLDER NAME]`

Init git:

`$ cd [FOLDER NAME]`

`$ git init`

`$ git add .`

`$ git commit -m "Generated by Jekyll"`


Push master to github:

`$ git remote add origin https://github.com/webdef/site-built-with-jekyll-grunt-and-sass.git`

`$ git push -u origin master`

Setup the gh-pages branch

Create an orphan gh-pages branch:

`$ git checkout --orphan gh-pages`

`$ git reset .`

`$ rm -r *`

`$ rm .gitignore`

`$ echo 'Coming soon' > index.html`

`$ git add index.html`

`$ git commit -m "init"`

That way the master and the gh-pages branches are totally independant ones, they share no history at all.

Push gh-pages to github:

`$ git push -u origin gh-pages`

Now you should see Coming soon message when browsing to: http://webdef.github.io/site-built-with-jekyll-grunt-and-sass/

Let's work in master branch:

`$ git checkout master`

Checkout the gh-pages branch into _site directory:

`$ git clone https://github.com/webdef/site-built-with-jekyll-grunt-and-sass.git -b gh-pages _site`

The _site directory is already in .gitignore so we are just fine.

Let's test our new website:

`$ grunt`

Push the generated site on github:

`$ cd _site`

`$ git add .`

`$ git commit -m "First generation"`

`$ git push`

Now browse to http://webdef.github.io/site-built-with-jekyll-grunt-and-sass/ and ... wow... the jekyll site is displayed but the CSS is broken. Why ? Because you have to set the baseurl setting in the main config file.

So edit the _config.yml file and set:

`baseurl: "/site-built-with-jekyll-grunt-and-sass"`

`url: "http://webdef.github.io"`

Regenerate the site, and push result on github:

`$ cd ..`

`$ jekyll build`

`$ cd _site`

`$ git add .`

`$ git commit -m "Fixes baseurl"`

`$ git push`

Now browse to http://webdef.github.io/site-built-with-jekyll-grunt-and-sass/ and everything should be fine!
